This is a true story.

On January 4th I was waiting for my car outside Safeway when a rather surreal event occurred: A stranger approached me, casually, with the demeanor of someone enjoying a Sunday outing, and said six simple words: "Excuse me, are you harassing me?" She said them without malice, hostility, or emotion of any kind, in the same tone you might use when asking for the time. She stared directly into my eyes while waiting patiently for a response, as if genuinely seeking clarification. How odd. I was rather confused, but had no interest in engaging, so I simply responded with "no" and walked away. I watched from afar as she continued to ask passersby the same question, as if conducting a survey, until one responded defensively, using body language to tell her in no uncertain terms to leave him alone. He continued to gesture with his arms as she followed him through the parking lot like a lost duck, but unfortunately I had to leave before witnessing the conclusion, and can only assume it continued to escalate. I filed this event away under "curiosities", and let it go, until I was reminded of it just two weeks later.

My next encounter with the unusual was on January 18th. This time I was shopping at Whole Foods, while hungry (foolish), and entered the frozen food aisle to buy ice cream before immediately reconsidering and choosing something healthier. I quickly pivoted away to the snack aisle, where only moments later another stranger approached me, visibly irate, asking if we had a problem. I responded with the only sentence fragment my brain could formulate: "A... p-problem?" but it was not well received. After some rather impressive swearing, they stormed off while continuing to shout about how I did not want to have a problem with them on this particular day. Stunned, I thought for a moment before putting it all together: They were shopping in the frozen food aisle when I abruptly left, and my rapid departure had been perceived as hostile avoidance of them. I simply wanted chocolate though, so again, I filed this under "curiosities", and made a note to start grocery shopping online. Two strange occurrences in this timeframe would be a statistical anomaly, and you would be forgiven for assuming the worst was over, but just this weekend there was another strange occurrence.

My third and final experience of the bizarre was on February 21st. I sleepily entered a San Francisco Starbucks, ordered a coffee, and headed to the restroom for personal business. I entered the lock code, 54321 (very secure), and opened the door, but was startled to find a man standing in the restroom washing his dog in the sink. I quickly apologized, closed the door, and made my way to the second restroom down the corridor, but to my horror he rapidly exited and followed me, wet dog in tow, while informing me in rather aggressive terms that people usually knock before entering restrooms. I calmly apologized for the misunderstanding, again, then showed him the vacant/occupied indicator on the door and demonstrated how it functions as a lock. Unfortunately, he did not appreciate my demonstration, and began yelling at me for "mouthing off", so I hid in the restroom (with the door locked), and waited for him to stop banging on it with his fists. As he tried to get in, still apparently confused by locks, I wondered to myself whether he was harassing me, but before I could even ask, the staff removed him from the premises. Again, I filed this away under "curiosities", but after this last event it struck me how many odd occurrences have happened lately. Did I miss a memo, or is there a cult in town?

Now, I usually write philosophy, not memoir, so at this point I would begin to search for the root cause of these strange events, dissecting abstract systems and examining the roots of human existence, but maybe this situation does not require that degree of analysis. I've lived in the San Francisco Bay Area for nearly 10 years, so trust me when I say it's a strange place where sometimes the unexplainable occurs. I would love to know what each person was thinking, but it's impossible to say for sure, and frankly, it might be better to remember these occurrences for exactly what they are: Unexplained curiosities.

So thank goodness for life's little curiosities; they're certainly keeping me on my toes!
