We become adults the day we realise they don’t exist. Not in the sense of juvenile rebellion, or in the cognitive sense of the thought simply entering the mind, but rather when we feel it deeply in our bones for the first time. The moment when you accept that none of the adults in your childhood could actually see the bigger picture, that they still can't, and that you too will never finish the puzzle that is existence, is the moment you learn to release the very concept of authority from your mind and soul. I have wondered about this for some time, but only recently integrated it deeply into my being, and it has brought a sense of peace that has always been lacking.

Learning to see others as true equals washes away any lingering frustration for their actions, for how could one hold anything against those who are still learning to be whole? They are stuck in power structures and systems of control without a map of the maze or awareness of the futility
that is dominion over others. Equanimity and detachment replace both animosity and capitulation, and in the absence of both resistance and attachment to authority, we come to view our cherished adults as neither superior nor inferior, as neither adult nor child, but rather exactly what they are and always have been: People. Half-baked, like everyone else, and just as unsure of the great unknown. A few are trying to figure everything out, many have their heads buried in the sand, and some are just happy to be alive. When you see them for who they are though, they stop being superiors, and start being something closer to peers. All this to say, you become an adult the day you realise there were never adults above you to begin with.

With that being said, there do still appear to be varying degrees of maturity across humanity. In the same species that kills its own on ideological grounds we find those who donate their entire corpus of wealth to charity. We can look at any page of history and find murderers, saints, victims, abusers, donors, incarcerated criminals, corrupt prosecutors, manipulative depots, and noble leaders. How can this be? You and I may disagree on the exact details of what counts as right and wrong, but you likely hold some to be more dignified than others, so tell me, how can a species that has so much propensity for kindness contain so much potential for harm, or more on topic, how can we make sense of a world where the apparent adults commit horrible atrocities every second of every day?

It all makes sense once we stop labeling people as children and adults based on their age and start understanding them based on their outwards and inwards behaviour. Look hard enough with detachment and equanimity, and a pattern will emerge across time. It’s fairly universal to begin life by avoiding pain and moving towards pleasure, but most people eventually learn some degree of politeness and balance their personal needs with those of others. Virtually everyone beyond infancy is at least aware of the law, the written contract, and etiquette, the unwritten one, but only a few ask the deep questions and search for meaning beyond the walls of humanity. Beyond society, in the place where human desire has fallen by the wayside, lives true understanding and maturity. Unfortunately, if we go far enough into solitude and pursue ever more meaningful forms of understanding, we will inevitably find conflict with those who have stopped asking questions and started dictating answers. The ones who cling to certainty, and will do anything to ensure their version of the truth is supreme, will forever be at odds with everyone else. It's their nature to be in conflict, and they know no better way.

When I see people willingly accepting delusion and forcing it on others, all for the purpose of maintaining the illusion of order in a chaotic universe, I don't see adults, but rather, the deepest form of immaturity humanity has to offer. I see fear, delusion, and insincerity, but as with all frightened people, what they need is care and compassion, not judgment or hatred, for they are still
people. In time they may learn to grow beyond their limitations and self-imposed restrictions, to find the joy of curiosity and connection, and to put down their malice. Optimism aside though, an unfortunate barrier lingers, for some such people have guns, the will to use them against those they find objectionable, and no real sense of right and wrong. Ironic how those with the most power are usually those who deserve it the least, but there is nothing to fear.

Those of us who choose to think and feel without inhibition have a tool more powerful than any weapon, a free mind. In time the calcified souls that cling to their singular truths will come for
all who disagree, and they will hurt many, but they are as predictable as they are certain, and to a mind set free, they pose no threat. Flexible people who can accommodate change are always one step ahead, for those who value seeking truth over knowing truth do not require the permission of others
to explore. No, they simply think without limits, feel without prejudice, and wonder without end.

Set your own mind free, and enter a place where no adults are allowed.