A year ago I wrote that my inner critic was dead but it was a lie. She lives within me still, jabbing, pecking, and tugging at the threads of my mind with relentless razors of spite, vitriol, and disappointment. I have tried to suppress her, erase her, and repress her, but nothing works forever. She always comes back and she always has something to say. When I write an essay, she shows me every imperfection; when I write poetry, she shows me visions of humiliation; and when I just write without purpose, she stays quiet but lets me know I am skating on thin ice. She never stops, she is never far from the surface, and she is never satisfied. I want to be free of her, but she cannot be free, for all she knows are the chains of perfection.


It is that same perfection that tortures every artist and defiles every artwork. It leers at every scientist and berates every engineer. With spite it culls every good idea and ruins every budding dream before they have even seen the light. It demands everything of us but gives nothing in return, and would not recognize itself in a mirror if it were all that was. Perfection destroys everything of value, yet for all its horror,
it holds the seed of its own destruction, for nothing can be made to its own standards, itself included, and in its absence we find a worthy companion: imperfection.


In the violent world of horror and entropy we inhabit, perfection is a distant ghost, and life does what it must to survive. Lifeforms such as ours transcend perfection through a billion failures and a trillion deaths, each adding a little more and discarding everything unnecessary. Every being, every cell and every network fights to survive, however it can, growing from the innate wisdom of countless generations while adding its own tiny signature. It is evolution that frees us from the
siren song of perfection, and grants us a gift we should cherish until the end of time: The mistake. It is the mistake that makes us who we are, and should perfection ever join our chorus of life, it would find itself woefully inadequate, for in this universe perfection was never truly in the cards, and a perfect being would not survive.


In the absence of perfection a gentler voice finds its way to the surface, speaking not from a place of condemnation, but from earnest acceptance of all flaws. It cannot be known or spoken, but we all see it in our dreams, and in rare waking moments, it comes forth from the most obvious place,
smiles briefly, then departs before we have time to respond. It does not judge or want, it does not speak or act, and it does not wait or wander. It gently sits behind our eyes, forever out of reach, but never absent or afar. It grows through all adversity but imposes no predefined way of being, giving all the grace to follow their own way, and gently sowing the seeds of change. You might wonder what it is, but if you can let go of this puzzle, and learn to accept the imperfect paradox of not knowing, then you may be surprised to find the answer was with you all along.


My critic is silent now, for perfection does not warrant a response, and in silence all critics lose what they need most: engagement. Goodbye for now, critic, I am sure I will see you again, but that is all you will receive: Acknowledgement.