This is a true story.

On January 4th 2026 I was waiting outside Safeway for a lift when the strangest event occurred: A stranger approached me, casually, with the demeanor of someone enjoying a Sunday outing, and said six simple words: "Excuse me, are you harassing me?" She said it without malice, hostility, or emotion of any kind, in the same tone you might use when asking for the time. She stared straight into my eyes while waiting patiently for a response, as if genuinely seeking clarification. How odd. I was rather confused, but had no interest in engaging, so I simply responded "no" and walked away. I put some distance between us, but could still hear as she continued to ask passersby the same question, as if conducting a survey. I watched from a distance as this continued until one individual responded with irritation, using body language to tell her in no uncertain terms to leave him alone. He continued to gesture as she followed him through the parking lot, but unfortunately I had to leave before witnessing the conclusion, and can only assume it continued to escalate. I filed this event away under "curiosities", and let it go, until I was reminded of it just two weeks later.

My next encounter with the unexplainable was on January 18th 2026. This time I was shopping at Whole Foods, while hungry (foolish) and entered the frozen food aisle to buy ice cream. I reconsidered and chose to buy something healthier, so quickly pivoted away
to the snack aisle and started browsing the chocolate. Moments later, another stranger approached me, visibly irate, and asked if we had a problem. I responded with the only sentence fragment my brain could formulate: "A problem?" but it was not well received. After a few moments of rather impressive swearing, they stormed off while continuing to shout about how I did not want to have a problem with them on this particular day. Stunned, I thought for a moment before putting it all together: They were shopping in the frozen food aisle when I abruptly left, and my rapid departure was perceived as hostile avoidance of them. I simply wanted chocolate, so again, I filed this under "curiosities", and made a note to begin shopping for groceries online. Two strange occurrences in that timeframe are a statistical anomaly, so you would be forgiven for assuming the worst was over, but just this weekend a third event occurred that matches the pattern.

My third and final experience of the bizarre was on February 21st 2026. I sleepily entered a San Francisco Starbucks, ordered a coffee, and headed to the restroom for personal business. I entered the lock code, 54321 (very secure), and opened the door, but was startled to find a man standing in the restroom washing his dog in the sink. I quickly apologized, closed the door, and made my way to another restroom down the corridor, but he rapidly exited the restroom and followed me, wet dog in tow, informing me in aggressive terms that people usually knock before entering restrooms. I calmly apologized for the misunderstanding again, then showed him the vacant/occupied indicator on the door while demonstrating how it can be used to secure it. Unfortunately, he did not appreciate my comment, and began yelling at me for "mouthing off", so I hid in the other bathroom (with the door locked), and waited for him to stop banging on it with his fists. As he tried to get in, still apparently confused by locks, I wondered to myself whether he was harassing me, but before I could ask, the staff removed him from the premises. Again, I filed this away under "curiosities", but after this latest incident, it stuck with me how many strange occurrences have happened lately. Did I miss a memo or is there a cult in town?

I usually write philosophy, not memoir, so at this point I would begin to search for the root cause of these strange events, dissecting abstract systems and examining the roots of human existence, but maybe this situation does not require that degree of analysis. I've lived in the San Francisco Bay Area for nearly 10 years, so trust me when I say it's a strange place where the unexplainable often occurs. I would love to know what each person was thinking, but it's impossible to say for sure, and frankly, sometimes it's better to remember such occurrences for exactly what they are: Curiosities. 

So thank goodness for life's little curiosities; they're certainly keeping me on my toes!
